# 3.1 Main configuration

{% code-tabs %}
{% code-tabs-item title="solr\_indexerconfig.xml" %}
```markup
<init>
    <sleep>1000</sleep>
    <minStorageSpace>2048</minStorageSpace>
    <solrUrl>http://localhost:8080/solr/collection1</solrUrl>
    <viewerUrl>http://localhost:808/viewer/</viewerUrl>
    <fulltextEncoding>UTF-8</fulltextEncoding>
    <deleteContentFilesOnFailure>true</deleteContentFilesOnFailure>
    <addVolumeCollectionsToAnchor>false</addVolumeCollectionsToAnchor>
    <namespaces>
        <!-- <list> </list> -->
    </namespaces>    
    <pageCountStart>1</pageCountStart>
    <addLabelToChildren>true</addLabelToChildren>
    <labelCleanup>true</labelCleanup>
    <addNormDataFieldsToDefault>
        <field>NORM_IDENTIFIER</field>
        <field>NORM_NAME</field>
        <field>NORM_ALTNAME</field>
    </addNormDataFieldsToDefault>    
    <aggregateRecords>true</aggregateRecords>
    <lido>
        <imageXPath>lido:resourceRepresentation[@lido:type='image_master']/lido:linkResource</imageXPath>
        <imageXPath>lido:resourceRepresentation[@lido:type='http://terminology.lido-schema.org/resourceRepresentation_type/provided_representation']/lido:linkResource</imageXPath>
        <imageXPath>lido:resourceRepresentation[@lido:type='http://terminology.lido-schema.org/lido00464']/lido:linkResource</imageXPath>
        <imageXPath>lido:resourceRepresentation[@lido:type='image_overview']/lido:linkResource</imageXPath>
        <imageXPath>lido:resourceID</imageXPath>
    </lido>
    <email>
        <recipients>admin@example.org</recipients>
        <smtpServer>localhost</smtpServer>
        <smtpUser></smtpUser>
        <smtpPassword></smtpPassword>
        <smtpSenderAddress>do-not-reply@goobi-viewer.example.org</smtpSenderAddress>
        <smtpSenderName>Goobi viewer Indexer</smtpSenderName>
        <smtpSecurity>NONE</smtpSecurity>
    </email>
</init>
```
{% endcode-tabs-item %}
{% endcode-tabs %}

#### 3.1.1 Parameter: sleep 

Waiting time of the Goobi viewer Indexer \(in milliseconds\) between monitoring cycles of the hotfolder. The default value is `3000`. 

#### 3.1.2 Parameters: minStorageSpace 

Minimum free hard disk space \(in MB\) on the drive where the hotfolder is located for indexing. 

If this size is not reached, the Goobi viewer Indexer automatically terminates and must be restarted manually \(after increasing the available memory\). The default value is `2048`. 

#### 3.1.3 Parameters: solrUrl 

URL of the Apache Solr HTTP server that contains the index. All communication between the Goobi viewer indexer and Solr takes place via HTTP queries. 

#### 3.1.4 Parameters: viewerUrl 

URL to the Goobi viewer to automatically remove old images from the cache when reindexing a record, for example. 

#### 3.1.5 Parameters: fulltextEncoding 

When indexing, full texts are available as normal text files that come from different sources and can use different character encodings. For example, ABBYY delivers its OCR results encoded as Cp1250 with default settings. With this configuration element, the expected character encoding of the OCR results can be adjusted. The default value is `UTF-8`. 

#### 3.1.6 Parameters: deleteContentFilesOnFailure

 It can happen that the indexing of an object fails due to an incorrect XML file, for example. In such a case, the file and all associated folders \(media, full texts, Word coordinates, etc.\) are removed from the hotfolder. Depending on the object, however, it can happen that the associated folders contain large amounts of data, so that copying this data into the hotfolder takes a lot of time. In such cases it is possible to leave these folders in the hotfolder even if they fail, so that they can be used with a corrected XML file. Remaining these folders in the hotfolder has no effect on the indexing of any other objects. 

#### 3.1.7 Parameters: addVolumeCollectionsToAnchor 

When indexing multi-volume records, volumes may belong to different collections. If this element is set to true, collection names from all volumes contained in the index are also copied to the complete record \(collections to which only the complete record belongs are also retained\). It should be noted here that any typographical errors in collection names can no longer be automatically removed from the complete record if this option is activated. The default value is `false`. 

#### 3.1.8 Parameters: namespaces 

If additional XML namespaces are embedded in METS documents, these must be communicated to the Goobi viewer Indexer so that corresponding XPath expressions can be evaluated. The namespace name is defined as the element name within the element `<list>`, the namespace URI as the text value of this element:

{% code-tabs %}
{% code-tabs-item title="solr\_indexerconfig.xml" %}
```markup
<init>
    <namespaces>
        <list>
            <xyz>http://www.example.org/xyz/</xyz>
        </list>
    </namespaces>
<init>
```
{% endcode-tabs-item %}
{% endcode-tabs %}

{% hint style="warning" %}
If no additional namespaces are defined, no empty element `<list>` may be present. 
{% endhint %}

#### 3.1.9 Parameters: pageCountStart 

Since December 2014, the Goobi viewer has been expecting a page count starting with 1. Versions before that, on the other hand, start counting at 0. In order to counteract a constant deviation in page navigation, compatibility with older Goobi viewer versions can be established by setting the value to 0. The default value is `1`. 

#### 3.1.10 Parameters: addLabelToChildren 

If this switch is set to true, the values of the `LABEL` fields of structure elements are written to the `DEFAULT` field of subordinate structure elements. The default value is `false`. 

#### 3.1.11 Parameter: labelCleanup

If this switch is set to true, non-sort character sequences "`<ns></ns>`", "`<<>>`" and "`¬`" are removed from the value. The default value is `false`. 

#### 3.1.12 Parameters: addNormDataFieldsToDefault/field 

Values, certain standard data fields \(for example, alternative spellings of a name\) can be added to the DEFAULT search field to ensure direct searchability. A new configuration element is added for each desired field \(for example, `<field>NORM_ALTNAME</field>`\). 

#### 3.1.13 Parameters: aggregateRecords

If set to `true`, the additional fields required for the aggregated search \(such as aggregated full texts and metadata\) are written to the index. The default value is f`a`lse. 

#### 3.1.14 Parameters: lido/imageXPath

To consider the heterogeneity of image paths in LIDO documents, the possible XPath expressions \(relative to lido:resourceSet\) in which image links are searched are configurable. The list is processed from top to bottom, and the first expression that returns hits is used \(the rest are ignored\). 

#### 3.1.15 Parameters: email/... 

If errors occur during indexing, the Goobi viewer Indexer can notify the email addresses defined in the recipients element. Configuration is carried out in the same way as described in Chapter 2.5.2.

