# 1.2 Translations

The majority of text elements in the Goobi viewer are available in multilingual `messages_*.properties` files. These individual text elements can be overwritten via local `messages_*.properties` files (one file for each supported language) to adapt standard names to your individual requirements. These text elements can be the names of the links and headings, for example, or entire text passages such as your welcome text.&#x20;

In addition, names for your digital collections, metadata and structure elements are defined in the local `messages_*.properties` files, since these are usually customer-specific and therefore not contained in standard message files. To spare your visitors imprecise (or unclear) names, you should create entries in the local `messages_*.properties` files for each of your collections, metadata and structure types. The .properties files are structured according to the following pattern: `key=value`.

One example is as follows:

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="messages_de.properties" %}
```
MD_TITLE=Titel
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

The above entry in `messages_de.properties` causes the Goobi Viewer to display `Titel` instead of the Solr field name `MD_TITLE` for users who have selected German as their language. For each supported language there must be an entry for the key `MD_TITLE` in the respective file. For languages without a corresponding entry, the key `MD_TITLE` is displayed to the user instead.

{% hint style="info" %}
If a simple text editor is used to edit messages.properties files, non-ASCII characters must be escaped with their corresponding Unicode sequence:
{% endhint %}

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="messages_de.properties" %}
```
AttachedWork=Beigef\u00FCgtes Werk
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

Defines the name `Beigefügtes Werk` for the `AttachedWork` structure type. A list of common Unicode special characters is:

| Character | Codierung |
| --------- | --------- |
| ä         | \u00E4    |
| Ä         | \u00C4    |
| ö         | \u00F6    |
| Ö         | \u00D6    |
| ü         | \u00FC    |
| Ü         | \u00DC    |
| ß         | \u00DF    |
| ó         | \u00F3    |
| á         | \u00E1    |
| é         | \u00E9    |
| í         | \u00ED    |
| ã         | \u00E3    |
