# 3.2 Directories

For operation, a number of folders must be configured for the Goobi viewer Indexer from which files can be read or in which files can be stored. If certain folders do not exist, they are created automatically, but the path configurations must not be missing.

{% code-tabs %}
{% code-tabs-item title="solr\_indexerconfig.xml" %}
```markup
<init>
     <hotFolder>/opt/digiverso/viewer/hotfolder/</hotFolder>
     <tempFolder>/opt/digiverso/indexer/temp/</tempFolder>
     <viewerHome>/opt/digiverso/viewer/</viewerHome>
     <dataRepositories>
          <strategy>SingleRepositoryStrategy</strategy>
          <maxRecords>10000</maxRecords>
          <dataRepository buffer="10G">/opt/digiverso/viewer/data/1</dataRepository>
          [...]
     </dataRepositories>
     <mediaFolder>media</mediaFolder>
     <pyramidTiffFolder>ptif</pyramidTiffFolder>
     <altoFolder>alto</altoFolder>
     <fulltextFolder>fulltext</fulltextFolder>
     <fulltextCrowdsourcingFolder>fulltext_crowd</fulltextCrowdsourcingFolder>
     <wcFolder>wc</wcFolder>
     <pagePdfFolder>pdf</pagePdfFolder>
     <sourceContentFolder>source</sourceContentFolder>
     <userGeneratedContentFolder>ugc</userGeneratedContentFolder>
     <annotationFolder>annotations</annotationFolder>
     <indexedMets>indexed_mets</indexedMets>
     <indexedLido>indexed_lido</indexedLido>
     <indexedDenkXweb>indexed_denkxweb</indexedDenkXweb>
     <successFolder>/opt/digiverso/viewer/success/</successFolder>
     <updatedMets>/opt/digiverso/viewer/updated_mets/</updatedMets>
     <deletedMets>/opt/digiverso/viewer/deleted_mets/</deletedMets>
     <errorMets>/opt/digiverso/viewer/error_mets/</errorMets>
     <origLido>/opt/digiverso/viewer/orig_lido/</origLido>
     <origDenkXweb>/opt/digiverso/viewer/orig_denkxweb/</origDenkXweb>
</init>
```
{% endcode-tabs-item %}
{% endcode-tabs %}

The parameters are explained in detail in the following table:

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style="text-align:left">Setting</th>
      <th style="text-align:left">Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align:left"><b>hotFolder</b>
      </td>
      <td style="text-align:left">Contents to be indexed are stored in this folder. The Goobi viewer Indexer
        checks the folder for new XML files at short intervals. If new files are
        found, they are indexed one after the other (if a supported data format
        exists) and removed from the hotfolder.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align:left"><b>tempFolder</b>
      </td>
      <td style="text-align:left">Folder for temporary files.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align:left"><b>viewerHome</b>
      </td>
      <td style="text-align:left">Basic path of the Goobi viewer Core directory structure in the file system.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align:left"><b>dataRepositories/strategy</b>
      </td>
      <td style="text-align:left">
        <p>There are three possible strategies:</p>
        <ol>
          <li><code>SingleRepositoryStrategy</code> (Standard)</li>
          <li><code>MaxRecordNumberStrategy</code> (maximum number of records per DataRepository)</li>
          <li><code>RemainingSpaceStrategy</code> (smallest sufficient disk space)</li>
        </ol>
        <p>The default configuration with the <code>SingleRepositoryStrategy</code> writes
          everything to a folder.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align:left"><b>dataRepositories/maxRecords</b>
      </td>
      <td style="text-align:left">The maximum number of records that a data repository can contain. The
        default value is <code>10000</code>. This value is only evaluated for the <code>MaxRecordNumberStrategy</code>.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align:left"><b>dataRepositories/dataRepository</b>
      </td>
      <td style="text-align:left">
        <p>This element may exist any number of times and defines the individual
          data repositories. The full path to the data repository must be entered.
          Each data repository contains a complete folder structure for media files,
          XML, full texts, and so on. These are created automatically.</p>
        <p>With the optional attribute <code>buffer</code> a memory buffer can be defined
          especially for <code>RemainingSpaceStrategy</code>, which should remain
          unused. You can specify sizes in bytes, megabytes (large &quot;M&quot;
          after the number) or gigabytes (large &quot;G&quot; after the number).
          The default value is 0 bytes.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align:left"><b>mediaFolder</b>
      </td>
      <td style="text-align:left">This folder serves as a storage for any media files (images, video and
        audio) of an indexed object. These are each stored in a subfolder that
        has the identifier of the respective object as its name. The media files
        must always be available, as they are loaded from this folder into the
        Goobi viewer. This folder is searched for or created relative to <code>dataRepositoriesHome</code> (for <code>dataRepositories/enabled = true</code>)
        or <code>viewerHome</code> (for <code>dataRepositories/enabled = false</code>).
        For this reason, the value may only contain the name and no absolute path.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align:left"><b>altoFolder</b>
      </td>
      <td style="text-align:left">ALTO XML files are stored in this folder. These files contain detailed
        OCR results and can be used to extract both full texts and word coordinates.
        This folder is searched for or created relative to <code>dataRepositoriesHome</code> (for <code>dataRepositories/enabled = true</code>)
        or <code>viewerHome</code> (for <code>dataRepositories/enabled = false</code>).
        For this reason, the value may only contain the name and no absolute path.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align:left"><b>altoCrowdsourcingFolder</b>
      </td>
      <td style="text-align:left">This folder also contains ALTO XML files. However, these come from the
        crowdsourcing functions of the Goobi viewer. This means that if an ALTO
        document from crowdsourcing exists for a page, it is indexed, and not the
        document from OCR.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align:left"><b>fulltextFolder</b>
      </td>
      <td style="text-align:left">Here the (plaintext) fulltext files are stored after indexing. The files
        are stored in a subfolder, which has the identifier of the object as name.
        Although they are not required for the operation of the Goobi viewer (the
        full texts are indexed completely), they can be used for any re-indexing
        of an object. (in the event that no full text folder is found in the hot
        folder, the Goobi viewer Indexer searches for an existing full text folder
        from previous indexing). Please note the following: If an ALTO document
        is also available for a page, this is preferred for indexing full texts.
        This folder is searched for or created relative to <code>dataRepositoriesHome</code> (for <code>dataRepositories/enabled = true</code>)
        or <code>viewerHome</code> (for dataRepositories/enabled = false). For this
        reason, the value may only contain the name and no absolute path.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align:left"><b>fulltextCrowsourcingFolder</b>
      </td>
      <td style="text-align:left">This folder also contains simple full text files. However, these come
        from the crowdsourcing functions of the Goobi viewer. This means that if
        a full-text document from crowdsourcing is available for a page, it is
        indexed, and not the document from OCR.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align:left"><b>wcFolder</b>
      </td>
      <td style="text-align:left">Here the TEI word coordinates files are stored after indexing. These are
        each stored in a subfolder that has the identifier of the respective object
        as its name. Although they are not required for the operation of the Goobi
        viewer (the word coordinates are completely indexed), they can be reused
        for any re-indexing of an object (in the event that no word coordinates
        folder is found in the hotfolder, the Goobi viewer indexer searches for
        an existing word coordinates folder from previous indexing). Please note
        the following: If an ALTO document is also available for a page, this is
        preferred for generating word coordinates. This folder is searched or created
        relative to <code>dataRepositoriesHome</code> (for <code>dataRepositories/enabled = true</code>)
        or <code>viewerHome</code> (for <code>dataRepositories/enabled = false</code>).
        For this reason, the value may only contain the name and no absolute path.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align:left"><b>pagePdfFolder</b>
      </td>
      <td style="text-align:left">Pre-rendered PDF files for the individual pages of the object are stored
        here after indexing. These are each stored in a subfolder that has the
        identifier of the respective object as its name. If these files are present,
        the generation of PDF documents for the object in question can be considerably
        accelerated. This folder is searched or created relative to <code>dataRepositoriesHome</code> (for <code>dataRepositories/enabled = true</code>)
        or <code>viewerHome</code> (for dataRepositories/enabled = false). For this
        reason, the value may only contain the name and no absolute path.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align:left"><b>sourceContentFolder</b>
      </td>
      <td style="text-align:left">Files are stored here that are to be offered for direct download for the
        object (e.g. Born Digital materials). These files are stored in a subfolder
        which contains the identifier of the respective object as its name. For
        each file located here, a download link is displayed for the respective
        object. This folder is searched or created relative to <code>dataRepositoriesHome</code> (for <code>dataRepositories/enabled = true</code>)
        or <code>viewerHome</code> (for <code>dataRepositories/enabled = false</code>).
        For this reason, the value may only contain the name and no absolute path.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align:left"><b>userGeneratedContentFolder</b>
      </td>
      <td style="text-align:left">XML documents are stored here that originate user-generated content from
        the crowdsourcing functions of the Goobi viewer. These are used to display
        and search for this content in normal operation. This folder is searched
        or created relative to <code>dataRepositoriesHome</code> (for <code>dataRepositories/enabled = true</code>)
        or <code>viewerHome</code> (for <code>dataRepositories/enabled = false</code>).
        For this reason, the value may only contain the name and no absolute path.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align:left"><b>annotationFolder</b>
      </td>
      <td style="text-align:left">Contains JSON WebAnnotations that were created using a crowdsourcing campaign,
        for example.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align:left"><b>indexedMets</b>
      </td>
      <td style="text-align:left">The METS files are stored here after indexing. They are not required for
        general operation of the Goobi viewer, but must be available if a document
        is requested via the METS resolver. This folder is searched or created
        relative to <code>dataRepositoriesHome</code> (for <code>dataRepositories/enabled = true</code>)
        or <code>viewerHome</code> (for <code>dataRepositories/enabled = false</code>).
        For this reason, the value may only contain the name and no absolute path.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align:left"><b>indexedLido</b>
      </td>
      <td style="text-align:left">The LIDO files of individual objects are stored here after indexing. They
        are not required for general operation of the Goobi viewer, but must be
        available if a document is requested via the LIDO resolver.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align:left"><b>indexedDenkXweb</b>
      </td>
      <td style="text-align:left">Here the DenkXweb files of single monuments are stored after indexing.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align:left"><b>updatedMets</b>
      </td>
      <td style="text-align:left">
        <p>If a METS or LIDO file is reindexed, the previous version of this file
          is archived here. The time stamp of the respective reindexing is appended
          to the file name.</p>
        <p></p>
        <p><em>For the Goobi viewer, this folder is not relevant, but must still exist.</em>
        </p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align:left"><b>deletedMets</b>
      </td>
      <td style="text-align:left">
        <p>If an object is deleted from the index, the relevant METS or LIDO file
          is stored here.</p>
        <p></p>
        <p><em>For the Goobi viewer, this folder is not relevant, but must still exist.</em>
        </p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align:left"><b>successFolder</b>
      </td>
      <td style="text-align:left">
        <p>Files are stored here that are used to signal Goobi that indexing has
          been successful. On the basis of these files, Goobi learns the outcome
          of the indexing of a process and reports this to the user.</p>
        <p></p>
        <p><em>For the Goobi viewer, this folder is not relevant, but must still exist.</em>
        </p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align:left"><b>errorMets</b>
      </td>
      <td style="text-align:left">
        <p>If the indexing of an object fails, the relevant METS or LIDO file is
          stored here. In addition, the error message generated by the Goobi viewer
          Indexer is written to a log file and also stored there. On the basis of
          these files, Goobi learns the outcome of the indexing of a process and
          reports this to the user.</p>
        <p></p>
        <p><em>For the Goobi viewer, this folder is not relevant, but must still exist.</em>
        </p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align:left"><b>origLido</b>
      </td>
      <td style="text-align:left">
        <p>This is where the original LIDO files, as found in the hotfolder, are
          stored. These may contain thousands of objects, which are initially split
          into individual LIDO data records. The original files are not necessary
          for operation and are only used for archiving.</p>
        <p></p>
        <p><em>For the Goobi viewer, this folder is not relevant, but must still exist.</em>
        </p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align:left"><b>origDenkXweb</b>
      </td>
      <td style="text-align:left">
        <p>Here the original DenkXweb files as found in the hotfolder are stored.
          These files may contain thousands of monuments, which are split into single
          DenkXweb datasets. The original files are not necessary for operation and
          are only used for archiving.</p>
        <p></p>
        <p><em>For the Goobi viewer, this folder is not relevant, but must still exist.</em>
        </p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>