# 6.8.3 Example configuration for Goobi workflow

In order to configure a license in Goobi workflow, a metadata must first exist for it. 

This metadata must then be activated in all structure elements that are potentially to be assigned an access license. As a rule, document types such as monographs, periodicals, maps, etc. are the most suitable. However, it can also make sense for substructure elements if, for example, a periodicals is to be blocked but an article from it is to be released as Open Access. It is important not to allow the metadata more than once.

{% code title="/opt/digiverso/goobi/rulesets/ruleset.xml" %}
```markup
<MetadataType>
    <Name>AccessLicense</Name>
    <language name="de">Zugriffslizenz</language>
    <language name="en">License</language>
</MetadataType>

[...]

<metadata num="1o">AccessLicense</metadata>

[...]

<Metadata>
    <InternalName>AccessLicense</InternalName>
    <WriteXPath>./mods:mods/#mods:accessCondition[@type='use and reproduction']</WriteXPath>
</Metadata>
```
{% endcode %}

To prevent Goobi workflow from displaying a free text field in the metadata editor for the access license in the Goobi workflow and thus potentially entering different spellings of the same value that are prone to errors, a drop-down menu with possible values can be defined in the `goobi_metadataDisplayRules.xml`:

{% code title="/opt/digiverso/goobi/config/goobi\_metadataDisplayRules.xml" %}
```markup
<select1 ref="AccessLicense">
    <item selected="true">
        <label>Open Access</label>
        <value></value>
    </item>
    <item selected="false">
        <label>Lesesaal</label>
        <value>license_readingRoom</value>
    </item>
    <item selected="false">
        <label>Mitarbeiternetz</label>
        <value>license_internalEmployeeNetwork</value>
    </item>
    <item selected="false">
        <label>Virtueller Campus</label>
        <value>license_virtualCampus</value>
    </item>
</select1>
```
{% endcode %}

{% hint style="info" %}
We recommend that the internal values of the access restrictions have a descriptive prefix as in the license\_ example. This makes it easier to assign them later in the Goobi viewer backend.
{% endhint %}

