# 1.17.2 Faceting

The search hits are automatically faceted. The configuration is as follows:

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="config\_viewer.xml" %}
```markup
<search>
    <drilldown>
        <field>YEAR</field>
        <geoField>WKT_COORDS</geoField>
        <hierarchicalField initialElementNumber="4">DC</hierarchicalField>
        <field initialElementNumber="3">DOCSTRCT_TOP</field>
        <field initialElementNumber="3">DOCSTRCT_SUB</field>
        <field initialElementNumber="3" sortOrder="alphabetical_asc">MD_CREATOR </field>
        <field initialElementNumber="3" priorityValues="Berlin;Göttingen">MD_PLACEPUBLISH </field>
        <field labelField="MD_LABEL">MD_LOCATION</field>
    </drilldown>
</search>
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

Any number of additional index fields for faceting can be defined via `<field>` elements. Please note that fields with the prefix `FACET_` should exist in the index for this purpose, as these are processed more efficiently due to your configuration. __Fields with the prefix `FACET_` are automatically generated during indexing for all `MD_*` fields and for `DC`, `DOCSTRCT`, `CENTURY` and `YEAR`. Configured should still be the regular field names - the special faceting fields are used internally automatically.

The attribute `labelField` can contain an index field for label values that differs from the faceting field. For example, grouped metadata containing different names of a city \(e.g. "Instanbul" and "Constantinople"\) can be facetted using a common standard value \(e.g. a URI\). A value composed of the different names is displayed to the user, and the faceting is done using the standard value. 

{% hint style="info" %}
The fields `DOCSTRCT_TOP` \(document type\) and `DOCSTRCT_SUB` \(structure element\) are generated automatically.
{% endhint %}

Fields that are searched hierarchically \(for example `DC`\) should be configured as `<hierarchicalField>`. The attribute `initialElementNumber=""` defines the number of faceting values initially displayed after a search. All others are displayed by expanding the respective faceting element.\). The attribute `sortOrder=""` can be used to set the initial sorting within the faceting. Possible values are `alphabetical_asc`, `alphabetical_desc`, `numerical_asc` and `numerical_desc`. If no sortOrder is set, the hits are automatically sorted by occurrence in descending order. The order in the configuration file reflects the order in the interface. 

In the attribute `priorityValues`, \(semicolon-separated\) values can be specified which should always be sorted on top if these values occur, independent of the other sorting of the faceting values.

If the `YEAR` field is defined, it is displayed in the form of a slider in the interface.

If a `<geoField>` is configured, it must have the value `WKT_COORDS`, the field through which a geospatial search can be performed in SOLR. Then a map widget will be displayed for each search, through which the search results can be faceted by geographic areas. If there are search results with geographical coordinates, they are displayed in a map above the search results list, too.

