# 2.20.1 Main table of contents

The table of contents is configured in the `<toc>` section:

{% code title="config\_viewer.xml" %}
```markup
<toc>
    <multiVolumeThumbnailsWidth>50</multiVolumeThumbnailsWidth>
    <multiVolumeThumbnailsHeight>60</multiVolumeThumbnailsHeight>
    <multiVolumeThumbnailsEnabled>true</multiVolumeThumbnailsEnabled>

    <volumeSortFields>
        <template name="_DEFAULT">
            <field order="asc">CURRENTNOSORT</field>
        </template>
        <template name="Periodical" groupBy=“YEAR“>
            <field order="desc">CURRENTNOSORT</field>
        </template>
    </volumeSortFields>

    <labelConfig>
        <template name="_DEFAULT">
            <metadata value="{DOCSTRCT}{MD_TITLE}">
                <param type="field" key="DOCSTRCT" suffix=":_SPACE_" />
                <param type="field" key="MD_TITLE" altKey="LABEL" />
            </metadata>
        </template>
        <template name="_GROUPS">
            <metadata label="" value="{LABEL}{MD_SERIESDISPLAYORDER}">
                <param type="translatedfield" key="LABEL" />
                <param type="field" key="MD_SERIESDISPLAYORDER" prefix="_SPACE_(" suffix=")" />
            </metadata>
        </template>
    </labelConfig>

    <titleBarLabel>
        <template name="_DEFAULT">
            <displayAnchorTitle>false</displayAnchorTitle>
	   		</template>
        <template name="volume">
            <displayAnchorTitle prefix="" suffix="_SPACE_">true</displayAnchorTitle>
	   		</template>
	   </titleBarLabel>

    <tocAnchorGroupElementsPerPage>10</tocAnchorGroupElementsPerPage>

    <recordGroupIdentifierFields>
        <field>GROUPID_SERIES</field>
        <field>GROUPID_CONVOLUTE</field>
    </recordGroupIdentifierFields>

    <ancestorIdentifierFields listSiblingRecords="true">
        <field>PI_PARENT</field>
    </ancestorIdentifierFields>

    <useTreeView showDocStructs="_ALL">false</useTreeView>
    
    <tocIndentation>20<tocIndentation>
</toc>
```
{% endcode %}

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style="text-align:left"><b>Setting</b>
      </th>
      <th style="text-align:left">Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align:left"><b>multiVolumeThumbnailsWidth/Height</b>
      </td>
      <td style="text-align:left">Size of the thumbnails in the content view for anchor elements (multi-volume
        records and periodicals)</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align:left"><b>multiVolumeThumbnailsEnabled</b>
      </td>
      <td style="text-align:left">Set to <code>true</code> to display thumbnails of child records in the content
        view for Anchor elements.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align:left"><b>volumeSortFields</b>
      </td>
      <td style="text-align:left">Sorting of volumes in the table of contents of a multi-volume record.
        Here you can define different configurations for certain anchor structure
        types using templates (analogous to the metadata configuration). If no
        special configuration is available, the template &quot;<code>_DEFAULT</code>&quot;
        is used. The optional attribute &quot;<code>groupBy</code>&quot; groups
        the volumes into individual blocks according to a Solr metadata field (e.g.
        volumes of a periodical). The field configured here should preferably not
        be multivalued. If the groups are also to be sorted, the configured grouping
        field must also be configured as a sort field for this template (i.e. as
        a sub-element <code>&lt;field&gt;</code> within the template). The defined <code>&lt;field&gt;</code> elements
        are added to the Solr query in the specified order, i.e. they are sorted
        primarily by the field in the first <code>&lt;field&gt;</code> element, equivalent
        hits among each other by the second, etc. The Solr query is sorted according
        to the field in the first element. The optional order attribute can be
        used to sort in descending order (<code>desc</code>). The default value
        is <code>asc</code>.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align:left"><b>labelConfig</b>
      </td>
      <td style="text-align:left">
        <p>Configuration of labels in the table of contents. Here, templates (analogous
          to the metadata configuration) can be used to define different configurations
          for certain structure types. If no special configuration is available,
          the <code>_DEFAULT</code> template is used. The special template <code>_GROUPS</code> is
          used to configure the root element of an abstract group (such as a tape
          series).</p>
        <p>
          <br />The <code>metadata/@value</code> attribute defines a master value that can
          contain placeholders that are replaced by the values from the <code>param</code> elements.
          Unlike metadata configurations, the placeholders here are not provided
          with a count, but must be named like the corresponding values in <code>param/@key</code>.
          In <code>param/@key</code>, both index fields and message keys can be used
          directly (in the latter case, <code>type=&quot;translatedfield&quot;</code> must
          always be configured).
          <br />
          <br />Optionally the attribute <code>param/@altKey</code> can be defined.It is
          used as a fallback for missing values from <code>param/@key</code> and otherwise
          functions identically.
          <br />
          <br />The optional attributes <code>prefix</code> and <code>suffix</code> can also
          be handled here by automatic translation. For this, corresponding message
          keys must be defined and used as values of these attributes.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align:left"><b>titleBarLabel</b>
      </td>
      <td style="text-align:left">Configuration for displaying the title of an open work. Here, different
        configurations for certain structure types can be defined via templates
        (analogous to the metadata configuration). If no special configuration
        is available, the template <code>&quot;_DEFAULT&quot; </code>is used. Basically,
        the title of a work is the title of the corresponding table of contents
        entry. If <code>displayAnchorTitle</code> is set to <code>true</code> in a
        template, this title is preceded by the title of the parent work if available.
        With the attributes on <code>displayAnchorTitle</code>  <code>prefix</code> and <code>suffix</code>,
        a static text can be placed before or after the title of the parent work.
        In the above example configuration, only journal issues are enriched with
        the title of the parent journal, separated only by a space.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align:left"><b>tocAnchorGroupElementsPerPage</b>
      </td>
      <td style="text-align:left">In the case of complete records and groups with many volumes, the structure
        of the volume list can take a very long time. Here it is possible to use
        a pagination of the volume list and to limit the number of displayed volumes
        per page to the number configured here. If the value is 0 or less, pagination
        is switched off.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align:left"><b>recordGroupIdentifierFields</b>
      </td>
      <td style="text-align:left">A list of metadata fields used to logically group records. These usually
        start with <code>GROUPID_</code> and are used to list records that have a
        common field value as a group (even if they do not have a common anchor
        document). Examples of applications are tape series or convolutes.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align:left"><b>ancestorIdentifierFields</b>
      </td>
      <td style="text-align:left">This list of identifier fields is used to create table of contents hierarchies
        from records that either have a fixed common parent structure (Anchor)
        or are related to each other in a loose parent-child relationship (Related
        Item). The child documents each have the identifier of the parent document
        in the corresponding metadata field. Note: This mechanism is also used
        to list volumes of a complete record (anchor). The entry <code>&lt;field&gt;PI_PARENT&lt;/field&gt;</code> required
        for this can be configured, but is implicitly added to this list if it
        does not exist. is added. The attribute <code>listSiblingRecords</code> (if
        set to <code>true</code>) ensures that other records on the same level (e.g.
        other volumes of the same complete records) are also listed if a volume
        is currently open.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align:left"><b>useTreeView</b>
      </td>
      <td style="text-align:left">If set to <code>true</code>, the table of contents is displayed as an expandable
        and collapsible tree. For the table of contents page you can additionally
        configure whether the tree structure should be activated for all or only
        for certain document types. This is done with the attribute <code>showDocStructs</code>,
        with semicolon-separated document types (e.g. <code>showDocstructs=&quot;Monograph;Manuscript;PeriodicalVolume&quot;</code>)
        or with an entry for all types (<code>showDocstructs=&quot;_ALL&quot;</code>).</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align:left"><b>tocIndentation</b>
      </td>
      <td style="text-align:left">Number of pixels used to indent child elements as padding. Default value
        is <code>20</code>.</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

